Here comes the highlight of
week one, and one of the
highlights of the whole course.
The argument from massive
reduplication. This is an
argument in favor
of accepting Russell's principle
of acquaintance. Let's see if
you find the arguments
convincing. I want to start
by telling you about a failure
to think, so I'm not giving you
the argument yet. That's going
to come later, will tell you
about failure to think so next
door to me live some musicians
and I have to tell you I've
never actually met these
musicians. I've never seen them.
They keep quite different hours
to those of Mrs B and I
disreputable hours. I might even
say, and you know, every now and
again we hear the usual kind of
bumps, crashes, and whatever
kind of noise. That I suppose
these musicians are created,
so we know these musicians
really only through this, and
we know the musicians only
through the sound.
Right on cue.
Let me close a window.
It should be a bit quieter
in here now. I hope. I hope
you're not going to hear too
much of them anyway, but you get
the idea. So we hear these
people, but we don't know
anything about them. And so
this morning I said to Mrs B,
‘the vocalist is doing
better today than she was
yesterday’.
Mrs. B said, ‘yes, but
it sounds like the drummer is
all over the place again.’
Here we are
talking about the vocalist and
the drummer, two people who live
next door to us. Our neighbors.
We
seem to be having thoughts about
them. We're thinking about our
neighbors. Or are we? Well, it
turns out,
that actually it
isn't a band of musicians. It's
a collective that has rotating
members, so the vocalist that we
were hearing today when I made
that remark here, she's
different from the vocalist who
was here yesterday, who's now
long gone. It's a rotating
collective.
And likewise for the drummer.
There's a whole sequence of
different drummers. Sometimes
there are two drummers. We had
no idea.
You could rightly
say there is a failure
to think. It seemed like when
I said to Mrs B, ‘the vocalist
is doing better today than she
was yesterday’ that I was
expressing a thought about a
particular person.
But what was I really thinking
about? There is no vocalist.
There are many vocalists.
The vocalist Yesterday is
different from the vocalist today.
So what I've said just doesn't
really fit, and it seems that
what I was trying to express
wasn’t a thought about anything.
It wasn’t a thought about today's
vocalist because today’s
vocalist isn't doing better than
*she* was yesterday. It wasn't
about yesterday's vocalist.
It wasn't a thought about both
of them, because I'm clearly
trying to contrast one person.
It was just a thought about
nobody. Likewise, where Mrs B
was on about the drummer,
she wasn't thinking
about anything. There
was nothing that she was
thinking about. So here we have
a failure of thought.
If your knowledge of the things
that you're thinking about is
what Russell calls knowledge by
description, you are not
acquainted with the things
you've never met. The neighbors
like us, 'cause they keep
different hours. You only know
them by description then.
It may well be that although
you believe you're thinking
about something, it turns out
later that you're not thinking
about anything at all.
Nice, OK, so this is very
important so far explained. It's
possible to have the illusion of
thought without actually
thinking about anything at all.
I thought I was thinking about
someone, the vocalist and I
wasn't. I wasn't thinking about
anything at all.
So when we rely on knowledge by
description. We are always
at risk of not thinking
about anything.
That risk is always there. Now
we need to be very careful
here. What is suggested so far
is kind of an isolated problem
and it involves an unusual and
highly contrived situation.
It's very fortunate that my
neighbors, they have all kinds
of Downsides living next to
these musicians, but they do
provide good good anecdotes.
Thank you, neighbors. I don't
know if they'll ever watched
this one day. I'm not going to
listen to their music. I'm sure
they're not going to watch my
philosophy lectures, but you
never know, you never know.
It's important goal with your
neighbors isn't it? Why am I
telling you this, you don't
need to know this.
What you need to know is that
what I've described so far is an
isolated problem, so we're not
going to take this too seriously
and suddenly we wouldn't be
involved in some kind of
terrible travesty of mistaken
inference, like thinking on any
given occasion. It's possible
that I'm wrong. Therefore, it's
possible that I'm invariably
wrong that doesn't follow it
all. People do this all the time
in sort of trying to construct
skeptical arguments, and it's
invariably mistake. This
argumentative structure is very
bad. No, don't do that naughty.
OK. So why do we care? Well,
what we need to do is to find
some way of getting from my
anecdote to a larger scale
possibility that doesn't involve
making a bad influence.
And this is where the
possibility of massive
reduplication comes into
the picture.
The possibility of maths every
duplication is the possibility
that for all we know.
There may be a distant region of
the universe with duplicates of
everything around here.
There may be a distant region of
the universe that contains
duplicates of everything around
here, so here I am.
Just now recruiting this
lecture and in the distant
faraway universe, part of the
universe, there is my
counterpart. And sure enough,
he's also Mail. He's just like
me, he's wearing the same
jacket. He's got these rather
nice glasses. I'm very fond
of, although they're quite
broken now.
And so on, and you get the
idea. You know. And he's also
married to somebody called Mrs
B who looks just like Mrs B,
and so on and so forth.
The possibility exists.
That there is some part of the
universe in which everything
around here is duplicated.
Very, very exactly all stuff
looks just the same.
And that you know that could be
true for all we know. I
don't think it is true, but it
might be. Can't rule it out.
OK, why's that relevant? Well,
it gives us an argument.
Suppose that you were not
acquainted with anything at
all. Suppose that you
thought Russell's idea about
acquaintance. I just a myth
myth. There is nothing which
is more primitive than thought
and which connects our
thoughts to the world. Will
see some views like this
later.
In the courts later in the
course next week, if you're
following the lectures in order.
So there are people who think
look acquaintances myth
you're not acquainted with
anything at all. Now, let's
suppose for the sake of
argument that they write.
It would follow that all of your
thoughts would be based on
knowledge by description. It's
those descriptions that connect
your thoughts to the world.
But in that case we also have to
allow. That massive
reduplication is possible
for all we know.
And then it would follow that
you might not be thinking about
anything at all. For all we
know. So you might be in a
situation not just like me
where. What I thought was a
vocalist next door is actually a
series of people who are coming
and going part of this musical
collective, but that actually
everything. That you're thinking
about all of the stuff that you
know by description. You're not
really singling out anything
with those descriptions because
the descriptions apply equally
well. Just some other stuff in a
far away part of the universe.
So you see how we got here?
We've taken. The idea that your
thoughts or rest on knowledge by
description. No acquaintance
allowed together with the idea
that massive reduplication is
possible, and we've got to this
conclusion that you might not
ever be thinking about anything
at all seems to follow.
But we do know, I take it that
you suck sometimes succeed in
thinking about some things. Now
you'd have to be pretty serious
skeptic to think. But this is
false. Generally
speaking, skeptics tend to
doubt the existence of things
in the external world.
So if you're a skeptic about
cats, you don't think that cats
exist. If you're a skeptic
about physical objects, you
think there are no physical
object.
But here you would be a skeptic
about the contents of your own
mind. Now that's that's
possible, perhaps even more
plausible than skepticism about
the external world. Perhaps it's
actually more plausible to be
skeptical about the mind, will
think about that later.
But even an extreme form of step
system I think wouldn't embrace
this idea. That
Sorry wouldn't reject this idea,
even extreme skeptic should
embrace this idea that we do
know that sometimes we succeed
about thinking about some
things. Yes, there are cases
where we think we're thinking
about things that were not, but
that's not the general rule.
It follows from all of this.
Then this is my last .6 here.
That we are acquainted with at
least one thing. How does that
follow here? I've derived a
contradiction. I've got four and
five. This is my contradiction
for files from two and three
five. I've just tried to
persuade you is widely accepted
and you should probably expect
it too. So I've got a
contradiction. So what I'm going
to do is use that contradiction
to reject the first premise
here, because what I've done is,
I suppose that that were true,
that you're not acquainted with
anything at all. I've derived a
contradiction four to five, and
so I'm using what your later
come. To talk of us, I think
negation elimination. Don't
trust me on that or is it
contradiction elimination? I
forget you have to think about
this when you're in logic.
Anyway, forgive me. What I've
done is I've never had a
contradiction from the
supposition and therefore I
reject the supposition. I
think that you're acquainted
with at least one thing. See
how that argument works.
Now, I'm not saying for a moment
that this argument is
conclusive. I think that many of
you may have interesting
objections to this argument. You
may even have straightforward
objections to this argument, but
I think it's an argument that's
worth thinking carefully about.
This is the argument from the
possibility of massive
reduplication to the conclusion
that Russell's principle of
acquaintances, or
something very like it you're
acquainted with at least one
thing. So I'm suggesting that
the possibility of massive
reduplication provides us with
an argument for Brussels
Principle. Now that's not very
careful. If I was being much
more careful here, what did
the saying is? It provides us
with an argument for something
close to Russell's principle.
After all, Russell's principle
doesn't say what we just
concluded. Let's go back a
second.
Here's what we just
concluded: you're acquainted
with at least one thing.
Now, of course, that's not quite
Russell's principle. That could
be true, and Russell's principle
could be false. Because if you
remember, Russell's Principle
of Acquaintance says
that every proposition which we
can understand is composed
wholly of constituents with
which were acquainted.
Or another way
that Russell formulates the
principle:
all of our knowledge of
truth rests on fundamentally
on acquaintance.
So what we have here, I take
it, is an argument that
doesn't quite give us
Russell's principle, but it
gives us something close to
Russell's principle.
It gives us an argument for
the idea that
acquaintances, necessary
part of our connection.
To the world without
acquaintance, according to
the argument, our thoughts
would not be connected to
the world at all.